## Introduction

The Azure AI Agent Service Code Interpreter enables the LLM to generate Python code for tasks such as creating charts or performing complex data analyses based on user queries. It makes use of natural language processing (NLP), sales data from an SQLite database, and user prompts to automate code generation. The LLM-generated Python code executes within a secure sandbox environment, running on a restricted subset of Python to ensure safe and controlled execution.

## Lab Exercise

In this lab, you'll enable the Code Interpreter to execute Python code generated by the LLM.

1. Open the `main.py`.

1. Define a new instructions file for our agent: **uncomment** the following lines by removing the **"# "** characters

    ```python
    # INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/instructions_code_interpreter.txt

    # code_interpreter = CodeInterpreterTool()
    # toolset.add(code_interpreter)
    ```

    !!! warning
        The lines to be uncommented are not adjacent. When removing the # character, ensure you also delete the space that follows it.

1. Review the code in the `main.py` file.

    After uncommenting, your code should look like this:

    ``` python
    INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/instructions_function_calling.txt"
    INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/instructions_code_interpreter.txt"
    # INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/instructions_file_search.txt"
    # INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/instructions_bing_grounding.txt"


    async def add_agent_tools():
        """Add tools for the agent."""
    
        # Add the functions tool
        toolset.add(functions)

        # Add the code interpreter tool
        code_interpreter = CodeInterpreterTool()
        toolset.add(code_interpreter)

        # Add the tents data sheet to a new vector data store
        # vector_store = await utilities.create_vector_store(
        #     project_client,
        #     files=[TENTS_DATA_SHEET_FILE],
        #     vector_name_name="Contoso Product Information Vector Store",
        # )
        # file_search_tool = FileSearchTool(vector_store_ids=[vector_store.id])
        # toolset.add(file_search_tool)

        # Add the Bing grounding tool
        # bing_connection = await project_client.connections.get(connection_name=BING_CONNECTION_NAME)
        # bing_grounding = BingGroundingTool(connection_id=bing_connection.id)
        # toolset.add(bing_grounding)
    ```

### Review the Instructions

Review the **src/workshop/instructions/instructions_code_interpreter.txt** file. This replaces and adds to the instructions we used in the previous lab.

In the **Tools** section we have added a new "Visualization and Code Interpretation" tool that instructs the agent to:

- Use the code interpreter to write programs, e.g. to download or visualize data 
- Visualize data using chats and graphs, and follow the user's language for labels, titles and other text in charts
- Save visualizations as PNG files, and data as CSV files

### Run the Agent App

1. Press <kbd>F5</kbd> to run the app.
2. In the terminal, the app will start, and the agent app will prompt you to  **Enter your query**.

### Start a Conversation with the Agent

Try these questions:

1. **Show sales by region as a pie chart**

    Once the task is complete, the pie chart image will be saved in the **files/** subfolder under `src/workshop`. Note that this subfolder is created the first time this task is run, and is never checked into source control.
    
    Open the folder in VS Code and click on the image file to view it. (Tip: in Codespaces, you can Control-Click the link that the agent outputs in its response to view the file.)

    !!! info
        This might feel like magic, so what’s happening behind the scenes to make it all work?

        Azure AI Agent Service orchestrates the following steps:

        1. The LLM generates a SQL query to answer the user's question. In this example, the query is:

            ```
            SELECT region, SUM(revenue) AS total_revenue FROM sales_data GROUP BY region;
            ```

        2. The LLM asks the agent app to call the **async_fetch_sales_data_using_sqlite_query** function. The SQL command is executed, and the resulting data is returned to the LLM.
        3. Using the returned data, the LLM writes Python code to create a Pie Chart.
        4. Finally, the Code Interpreter executes the Python code to generate the chart.

2. **Download the sales by region data**

    Once the task is complete, check the **files** folder to see the downloaded file.

    !!! info
        By default, the instructions specify that data downloads in CSV format. You can request other formats, such as JSON or Excel, by including the desired format in your query (e.g., ‘Download as JSON’).

3. **Download as JSON**

    Once the task is complete, check the **files** folder to see the downloaded file.

    !!! info
        The agent inferred from the conversation which file you wanted to create, even though you
        didn't explicitly specify it. 

4. Continue asking questions about Contoso sales data to see the Code Interpreter in action.

## Stop the Agent App

When you're done, type **exit**, or press <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>F5</kbd> to stop the agent app.
