# Security Concerns

This workshop application is designed for education and adaptation, and is not intended for production use out-of-the-box. Nonetheless, it does demonstrate some best practices for security.

## Malicious SQL Attacks

A common concern with SQL dynamically generated by LLMs is security, particularly the risk of SQL injection or malicious actions, such as dropping or tampering with the database. While these concerns are valid, they can be effectively mitigated by properly configuring database access permissions.

This app uses a SQLite database configured as read-only. For database services like PostgreSQL or Azure SQL, the app should be assigned a read-only (SELECT) role. Running the app in a secure environment further enhances protection.

In enterprise scenarios, data is typically extracted and transformed from operational systems into a read-only database or data warehouse with a user-friendly schema. This approach ensures that the data is secure, optimized for performance and accessibility, and that the app has restricted, read-only access.

## Sandboxing

This app will use [Azure AI Agents Service Code Interpreter](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/agents/how-to/tools/code-interpreter?view=azure-python-preview&tabs=python&pivots=overview) to create and run code on demand. The code is run in a sandboxed execution environment to prevent the code taking actions that are beyond the scope of the agent. 

## Other Best Practices Demonstrated in the App

The app also demonstrates some best practices for efficiency and user experience.

- **Asynchronous APIs**:
  In the workshop sample, both the Azure AI Agent Service and SQLite use asynchronous APIs, optimizing resource efficiency and scalability. This design choice becomes especially advantageous when deploying the application with asynchronous web frameworks like FastAPI, Chainlit, or Streamlit.

- **Token Streaming**:
  Token streaming is implemented to improve user experience by reducing perceived response times for the LLM-powered agent app.
